Random Points and their Cover: The purpose of this script is to sample random points and join them to their woody cover data. Its outputs are a csv file with the woody cover for all random points in the L1, a .xlsx file with all the fires at the L1 level (duplicates NOT removed), a .xlsx file with all the fires for selected L3 regions, a .xlsx file with all the random points in the selected L3 regions a .xlsx file with sampled random points in the selected L3 regions
Prepare Presence.Absence Data: The purpose of this script is to turn the L3 fire data and the random points data into a single dataframe with a row for each fire, and two columns containing the presence/absence of fire, and the fractional woody cover. 2B. L1 Prepare Presence.Absence Data: This script does the same thing as 2, but at the L1 level. It removes all duplicates. Its output is a .xlsx L1 Presence/Absence dataframe.
GLM with the presence_absense: The purpose of this script is to run a binomial family generalized linear model for presence/ absence of fires ~ woody cover. Its outputs are a .xlsx with the statistical output, a pretty flextable table in a .doc for use in the manuscript and a graph of fire probability over woody cover for the supplemental file.
3.B Model Diagnostic Plots: The purpose of this script is to produce diagnostic plots for the models created in script 3. Its outputs are: a series of jpgs containing 6 diagnostic plots (Residuals vs Fitted, Q-Q Residuals, Scale-Location, Cook's distance, Residuals vs Leverage, and Cook's distance vs leverage).
Bootstrap Selection of Random Points: The purpose of this script is to create a bootstrapped distribution of null points for each ecoregion, where the sample count of each bootstrapping iteration is equal to the number of wildfires in that ecoregion. Its output is: a .xlsx file with the bootstrapped distribution and the actual distribution of fires.
Visualize Histograms of Boostrapped Counts: The purpose of this script is to visualize the distribution of bootstrapped null points and fires in each ecoregion across a range of woody cover using a histogram. Its output is: a jpg depicting just that.
Map Woody Cover Trends and Fire Log Odds: The purpose of this script is to create maps for the manuscript. Its output is: a map depicting the study area with ecoregion names given in the legend. a chloropleth map color coded to depict the sen's slope of percent woody cover increases per year in the Eastern United States. a chloropleth map color coded to depict the odds ratio of wildfire occurence ~ woody cover in the Eastern United States. Regions with insignificant results are depicted in gray. Regions excluded from the analysis are depicted in white. a map that plots the sen's slope and log odds map as one figure for the manuscript.
